-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about Kubernetes init containers
and then implement them.
So let's get into 0 5 0 2 init containers, right?
So before going and then implementing them,
let's understand what are these
init containers on a very high level.
Okay.
So init containers usually run
before the app containers, inside the pod.
So init containers can contain utilities
or setup scripts not present in the core app image,
and then they can run before the app container runs.
So we can have and then run multiple init containers
before the app container starts.
Okay.
So init containers are exactly like regular containers,
except init containers always run to the completion.
In addition to that,
each init container must complete successfully
before the next one starts.
So if you have multiple init containers
one after the other,
each need to execute the task assigned to that container,
and then complete it,
and the next one starts and then complete it.
Finally, all the init containers have succeeded,
then only the app container will start.
So if a pod's init container fails,
Kubernetes repeatedly restarts the pod
until the init container succeeds.
However, if the pod has a restart policy of never,
Kubernetes does not restart the pod.
So you can even consider this as one
of the example of your multi-container pods.
Okay, so earlier we have seen
in our initial Kubernetes fundamentals,
we discussed about running
only one container per Kubernetes pod
but if you want to run multi-container pods
so these are some of the examples,
like init containers, or N Y proxy, are few of the things.
Okay?
So, now let's go ahead
and then implement the init containers.
So, let's see what is this actually.
Okay, so under the pod template spec,
so which is nothing but empty init containers,
will be one of the equivalent level two containers,
whatever we see in our pods.
So let's go here
and go to user management microservices deployment.
So you see here, containers, right?
In the same level you can have the init containers.
Okay.
So init containers.
So that's the thing I'm discussing here, okay?
And so you can have the name of your init container,
and we are using a simple BusyBox image here,
and then what we are going to do is,
so we are going to check from our use init container
in user management pod that
whether my MySQL service is up or not.
So everyone, every time,
in a whileloop we are going to say NetCat hyphen Z MySQL,
which is nothing but the MySQL cluster AP service
and then 3 3 0 6 port.
So I'll keep checking regularly until and unless it is up.
So once it is up I can say MySQL DB server has started
and then this task will be completed.
The init container task, whatever we have provided,
it will be completed and then it will move
on to the containers present in the container section,
which is nothing but our user management REST step.
Okay.
So let's copy this stuff here
from wherever we have, everything.
So let me copy these things.
All right.
So, and paste it.
Okay.
So under init containers.
So we have the name init DB,
and the image is BusyBox image we are using,
and the command we are going to use
is a shell script with the NetCat, hyphen Z,
under shell NetCat hyphen Z and then MySQL 3 3 0 6.
So let me save this
and we have used the all other templates
as-is from our previous 0 5 0 1 section
and we updated only user management microservice
deployment section with the init container.
So now let's go ahead and then test it now.
So you should be in 0 5 0 2.
So let me go for 0 5 section, important concepts
and I should be in 0 5 0 2 Kubernetes init containers.
Okay, so now let's see.
The next step is to create the Kubernetes manifest,
means like create all the Kubernetes objects.
Okay.
So, kubectl apply hyphen F kube manifest.
So, now it needs to create the pods.
So, let's see what happens.
So, now we can watch the pods,
kubectl get pods,
and you can see that init container is running now.
Okay, so we can even put in the watch mode,
hyphen W means kubectl get pods,
hyphen watchmode means whatever is happening.
So, now MySQL got running.
So, that now in init container should pick it,
and then it should be successful,
and then start the user management container next to that.
Okay.
So now see init container is successful
and then it is initializing
the user management container inside of that.
So, pod is initializing inside that,
and we'll wait for it to be in running status.
So, it's running now.
Okay.
So, now let's see one more time,
kubectl get pods,
and our user management microservice should be running.
So, now one thing we need to do here is,
so, in the kubectl get pods output,
you can see that there is no restart happen
for our microservice, okay?
Because it waited for the MySQL container to come up,
and then only it started the user management
REST app container inside
this user management microservice pod.
Okay.
So, now one thing important here,
we need to see is describe the pod.
Okay.
So I'll say kubectl describe pod
and this complete pod information.
Okay.
So, copy and then paste.
So, what we are going to see is,
like we can see two types of containers present here.
So let's come up, okay.
So successfully assign the pod scheduling,
and then to the default namespace
and then it has the container image,
and then it created the init DB container,
and then once it started and then it completed,
then it started running the next container
which is user management microservice.
Okay.
So created that container
and then started that container.
So, now the one thing we need to see here
is what all containers, right?
So if these are the events,
whatever we have seen, what happened.
In addition to that, we can
also see init container here, right?
So, which is the init DB container.
So, it executed the command whatever we
have provided inside that
and verified that MySQL DB server has started or not.
So reason is completed, you can see, right?
It completed.
So as soon as it completes, then it immediately
terminates that container.
Exit code is going to be zero
and then it'll move on to create
the user management REST app container next to that.
Okay.
So it created this container
and then started this respective container.
So, this completes the init container concept,
applied to our user management microservice.
If you want even, we can access our health status page
and see that it is up and running.
It's up and running now.
Okay.
So now let's go back
and we have created and then tested.
Let's go ahead and then delete that stuff.
Okay.
So copy and then I'll say clear
and I can say kubectl delete hyphen F
and then kube manifest.
So everything, whatever we have created,
we are going to delete, okay?
So in our next lecture we are going to see liveness
and then readiness probes.
Okay.
So if you want more information
about pod init containers,
you can click on this and then read about those things.
This is the direct Kubernetes documentation link,
which will provide you more information
about init containers.
So, I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.